Decreases time to consume items
Increases time to consume items
Adds paintball effect on all large monsters.
Adds paintball effect on all large monsters and tells you when they can be captured.
Upon death increases attack and defense, up to 2 times.
Attack up small           +2% Attack.
Attack up medium       +4% Attack.
Attack up large           +6% Attack.
Attack up extra large   +8% Attack.
Attack up massive     +10% Attack.
Attack down small.
Attack down medium.
Attack down large.
Attack down extra large.
Shows when paintballed monsters can be captured.
Increases stamina recovery rate.
Greatly increases stamina recovery rate.
Massively increases stamina recovery rate.
Decreases stamina recovery rate.
Greatly decreases stamina recovery rate.
Increases damage when you hit weak points.
HP up small.
HP up medium.
HP up large.
HP up extra large.
HP up massive.
HP down small.
HP down medium.
HP down large.
HP down extra large.
Health recovery speed up small.
Health recovery speed up medium.
Health recovery speed up large.
Health recovery speed down small.
Health recovery speed down medium.
Health recovery speed down large.
Increases trap placing speed.
Increases all elemental damage, e.g.: fire, water, ice, electric, dragon.
Element up medium.
Element up large.
Element down.
Immune to paralysis.
Paralysis duration doubled.
Increases all status damage, e.g.:paralysis, poison, sleep.
Status up medium.
Status up large.
Status down.
Not sure. Something about less stamina used
Not sure. Something about less stamina used
Decreases stamina consumption.
Greatly decreases stamina consumption.
Increases stamina consumption.
Critical rate up small.
Critical rate up medium.
Critical rate up large.
Critical rate up extra large.
Critical rate up massive.
Critical rate down small.
Critical rate down medium.
Critical rate down large.
Critical rate down extra large.
Immune to odour.
Halves stun duration.
Immunity to stun.
Doubles stun duration.
Increases breaking damage.
Greatly increases breaking damage.
When HP is low, increases defense.
When HP is low, increases defense and attack.
When HP is low, greatly increases defense and attack.
When HP is low, decreases defense and attack.
Immunity to quakes.
Gives a chance to reduce damage taken.
Gives a high chance to reduce damage taken.
Gives a chance to increase damage taken.
Gives a high chance to increase damage taken.
Decreases the rate at which your max stamina drops.
Your max stamina never drops.
Increases the rate at which your max stamina drops.
When there are members of the opposite sex in your party, your attack increases.
When monsters are angry, increases your attack.
When monsters are angry, significantly increases your attack.
Immunity to small wind pressure.
Immunity to small and large wind pressure.
Immunity to small, large, and elder dragon’s dragon wind pressure.
After not dealing a critical strike for a while, your next attack will do critical damage.
A portion of your healing potions’ effects are transferred to teammates within a small range.
A large portion of your healing potions’ effects are transferred to teammates in the same area.
A large portion of your healing potions’ and meat’s effects are transferred to teammates in the same area.
Reduces the rate of your sharpness consumption.
Greatly reduces the rate of your sharpness consumption.
Increases the rate of your sharpness consumption.
At high HP values, your attack is increased and your defense is decreased.
Increases movement speed when carrying eggs, and immunity to theft.
Immunity to weather effects e.g.: heat and cold.
Defense up small.
Defense up medium.
Defense up large.
Defense up extra large.
Defense up massive.
Defense down small.
Defense down medium.
Defense down large.
Defense down extra large.
Reduces stamina consumption when evading
Medium stamina consumption reduction.
Large stamina consumption reduction.
Increases stamina consumption when evading
Medium stamina consumption increase.
Increases evade distance.
Greatly increases evade distance.
Immunity to sleep.
Doubles sleep duration.
Targeted less by monsters.
Targeted more by monsters.
When hit, chance to gain: small increase to affinity, <<Constitution +1>>, and <<Marathon Runner +1>> for 90 seconds.
When hit, chance to gain: large increase to affinity, <<Constitution +2>>, and <<Marathon Runner +2>> for 90 seconds.
Halves the duration of poison.
Immunity to poison.
Doubles the duration of poison.
Your strikes will not bounce off.
When your Ougi bar is filled your attack and defense is increased.
Whetstone sharpening speed increased.
Whetstone sharpening speed greatly increased.
Within 10 seconds of taking damage the next attack will deal reduced damage, can only be activated every so often
Within 15 seconds of taking damage the next attack will deal greatly reduced damage, can only be activated every so often
At certain levels of HP, you will survive lethal attacks.
Allows you to withstand the roars of some monsters.
Allows you to withstand the roars of most monsters.
Slightly increases damage to monsters not targeting you, but they will become more likely to target you.
Increases damage to monsters not targeting you, but they will become more likely to target you.
Increases strength of normal bullets and rapid arrows.
Increases your water elemental damage.
Water damage up medium.
Water damage up large.
Decreases your water elemental damage.
Increases attack power of fire and ammunition fire
much Increases attack power of fire and ammunition to fire
massively increase the attack power of fire and ammunition to fire
Decreases attack power of fire and fire ammunition.
Increases attack power of lightning and thunder ammunition
much Increases attack power of lightning and thunder ammunition
massively increase the attack power of thunder and lightning ammunition
Decreases attack power of thunder and lightning ammunition
Increases the power of the dragon attacks and anti-dragon ammunition
much Increases the power of dragon attacks and anti-dragon ammunition.
massively increase the power of the dragon attacks and anti-dragon ammunition
Decreases the power of dragon attacks and anti-dragon ammunition.
Increases attack power of ice and ice ammunition
much Increases attack power of ice and ice ammunition.
massively increase the power of ice attacks and ammunition ice
Decreases the power of ice and ice attacks ammunition.
Great Sword, Hammer and Bow charge 20% faster, Dual Blades 50% faster, Longsword 20% faster
Great Sword, Hammer and Bow charge 10% faster, Dual Blades 30% faster, Longsword 10% faster
Great Sword, Hammer and Bow charge 5% faster, Dual Blades 15% faster, Longsword 5% faster
Great Sword and Hammer charge more slowly
Resistance to water, fire, electricity, dragon and ice increased
Resistance to water, fire, electricity, dragon and ice increased heavily
Resistance to water, fire, electricity, dragon and ice increased massively
KO lasts longer
When on full life, attack power increases by 6.8%
Increased attack power against tripped monsters
Slightly increased Gunlance shelling damage, slightly reduced Wyvern's Fire cooldown
Increased Gunlance shelling damage, reduced Wyvern's Fire cooldown
Small increase to Fire Res
Medium increase to Fire Res
Large increase to Fire Res
Decrease to Fire Res
Small increase to Water Res
Medium increase to Water Res
Large increase to Water Res
Decrease to Water Res
Small increase to Thunder Res
Medium increase to Thunder Res
Large increase to Thunder Res
Decrease to Thunder Res
Small increase to Ice Res
Medium increase to Ice Res
Large increase to Ice Res
Decrease to Ice Res
Small increase to Dragon Res
Medium increase to Dragon Res
Large increase to Dragon Res
Decrease to Dragon Res
Increased duration of Hunting Horn buffs
Consuming healing items has a chance to increase Stamina
Increases the amount of Health recovered by healing items
Greatly increases the amount of Health recovered by healing items
Healing items restore less Health
Increases sharpness of melee weapons
Allows blocking of otherwise unblockable attacks
Small increase to blocking effectiveness
Medium increase to blocking effectiveness
Large increase to blocking effectiveness
Prevents the Bleeding status ailment
Eating Herbs greatly restores Health
Prevents you from being covered in mud and snow
Negates damage from hot areas
Negates Stamina drain in cold areas
Prevents monsters from recovering from Stun damage
+50% Affinity of draw attacks
+100% Affinity of draw attacks
Reduces recoil when firing Bowguns
Greatly reduces recoil when firing Bowguns
Increases recoil when firing Bowguns
Adds an extra volley to Light Bowgun rapid-fire salvoes
Small increase to invincibility frames when evading
Medium increase to invincibility frames when evading
Large increase to invincibility frames when evading
Increases damage of Piercing shots and arrows
Increases damage of Pellet shots and Scatter arrows
Allows of use of NormalS Lv1 and increases its clip size by 3
Allows of use of NormalS Lv1/2 and increases their clip sizes by 3
Allows of use of NormalS Lv1/2/3 and increases their clip sizes by 3
Allows of use of PierceS Lv1 and increases its clip size by 3
Allows of use of PierceS Lv1/2 and increases their clip sizes by 3
Allows of use of PierceS Lv1/2/3 and increases their clip sizes by 3
Allows use of PelletS Lv1 and increases its clip size by 2
Allows use of PelletS Lv1/2 and increases their clip sizes by 2
Allows use of PelletS Lv1/2/3 and increases their clip sizes by 2
Small increase to Bowgun reload speed
Medium increase to Bowgun reload speed
Large increase to Bowgun reload speed
Small decrease to Bowgun reload speed
Large decrease to Bowgun reload speed
Allows use of ClustS Lv1 and increases its clip size by 2
Allows use of ClustS Lv1/2 and increases their clip sizes by 2
Allows use of ClustS Lv1/2/3 and increases their clip sizes by 2
Allows use of ParalysisS for Bowguns and ParalysisCt for Bows
Allows use of SleepS for Bowguns and SleepCt for Bows
Allows use of PoisonS for Bowguns and PoisonCt for Bows
Increases size of all Bowgun clips by 1, unlocks a 4th charge level for Bows
Increased damage against Bird Wyverns
Increased damage against Fanged Beasts
Increased damage against Carapaceans
Increased damage against Flying Wyverns
Increased damage against Elder Dragons
Increased damage against Piscine Wyverns
Infinite sharpness for 1 minute after whetstone use
Sometimes you won't lose items upon consumption
Increased elemental damage by 30% when monster is enraged
Increased elemental damage by 45% when monster is enraged
The number of rewards gained after a hunt is increased
The number of rewards gained after a hunt is increased slightly
The number of rewards gained after a hunt is increased very slightly
The number of rewards gained after a hunt is decreased very slightly
The number of rewards gained after a hunt is decreased slightly
The number of rewards gained after a hunt is decreased
Adrenaline+2 and Guts
Sharpness+1 and Alk (L)
Marathon Runner+2 and Constitution+1
Increases Elemental Damage by 30% on vulnerable areas
Evade Extender+1 & Evasion+2
Increases invulnerability time while getting up
Dramatically increase Elemental Res
Significantly increase Elemental Res
Slightly increase Elemental Res
Slightly decrease Elemental Res
Significantly decrease Elemental Res
Dramatically decrease Elemental Res
Allows your draw-attack to KO the monster
Defense (L) & Defense Down Immunity
Weakness Exploit & Critical Eye+2
Guard+2 & Stam Recov+2
Evade Extender+1 & Uscathed
Negates all status effects
Reduces knockdown, and gives Earplugs
Attack (L) & Defense (L)
Fortify & Adrenaline+2
Autotracker, Speedsetup & Assassination+1
Divine Blessing, See Through+2 & Defense (s)
Sharp, High Speed Sharpening, Attack (s)
Not affected by the climate
Firing bullets/arrows has a chance to not consume ammo
After getting hit, will slowly recover health for 20 seconds
An additional 12% damage done with a crit